&help
+===========================================================================+
|             B A B Y L O N   5   M U X   W i z a r d   N e w s             |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                HELP LAST UPDATED: Sunday, January 17, 1999                |
|     Available news topics are organized by date. Type 'news <topic>'      |
|                                                                           |
| DATE            TOPIC                 DESCRIPTION                         |
| 01-17-99        email                 Wizard email addresses              |
| 01-17-99        xtypes                Info on how to set up XTYPEs        |
+===========================================================================+
        If you wish to add something to the news read NEWS SUBMISSIONS
  
&email
Wizard email addresses are listed below:
 
WIZARD                 EMAIL ADDRESS
JohnD                  jdutka@pcnet.com
Mike                   wenk@en.com
Valdar                 swaller@nwu.edu
    
&xtypes
+===========================================================================+
|               B A B Y L O N   5   M U X   X T Y P E   N e w s             |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|      Available topics are organized by date.  Type 'wizhelp <topic>'      |
|                                                                           |
| DATE            TOPIC            DESCRIPTION                              |
| ----            -----            -----------                              |
| 01-17-99        vmspace          Space Master Room                        |
| 01-17-99        vmroom           Ship Bridges                             |
| 01-17-99        traderoom        Buy/Sell Trade Rooms                     |
| 01-17-99        storeroom        Sell-Only Trade Rooms (Stores)           |
| 01-17-99        cargoroom        Cargo Storage Rooms                      |
| 01-17-99        relay            Communucations Relay Room                |
| 01-17-99        weapon           Personal Combat Weapons                  |
| 01-17-99        item             Personal Items (Links, Medkits, etc.)    |
+===========================================================================+
       If you wish to add something to the news read News Submissions
    
&vmspace
          
This is the room that basically controls helming and placement of ships and
planets.  Only wizzes should be allowed in here.
         
&vmroom
        
The VMROOM xtype is used for ship bridges.  You need to set &XTYPE on the
bridge to VMROOM and then set the room CONSOLE.  You then need to set the
room's zone with @CHZONE, @DESC the zone to create the ship's external
description, set &HASNAME to 1 and &SHIPNAME to the ship's name, such as
"EAS Nemesis, Human Omega Class Destroyer."  You then need to use the HELM
command in the VMSPACE room (#4) to helm the ship, use VMSETMB to set the
ship's bridge (minus the # symbol) and place the ship with the PLACE command.
The next step is creating the ship airlock exit and entrance.  The airlock
exit, which leads out of the ship, is a normal exit with no destination,
set to the ship's zone object with @CHZONE and @SET the exit SHIPEXIT.  If
desired, you can set a hardcode lock on the ship's airlock exit and entrance.
To create the ship's airlock entrance, @tel to room #36, the home of all
airlock entrances for ships in space, @OPEN an exit leading to the location
of the airlock exit you just created, set it to the ship's zone object with
@CHZONE and then @SET the exit SHIPIN and add a hardcode lock if so desired.
Remember to set all @DESC, @ODROP, @SUCC, @OSUCC, @FAIL and @OFAIL on the
exit and entrance and a @DESC on the ship's bridge (along with all other
exits and rooms on the ship).  The HELM command gives you a ship ID number
used by the hardcode for that ship, which you need to set on the ship zone's
@SHIPNUM register.  You then type SAVE in the VMROOM, followed by VMINIT and
VMROOM to save the ship and reinit space and all rooms with the ship
existing.  Finally, dock the ship at the desired bay or landing pad.
    
&traderoom
          
The TRADEROOM xtype is used for trade rooms, which function as commodity sale
or brokerage houses, where players can buy and sell commodities for profit.
You need to set &XTYPE on the bridge to TRADEROOM and then set the room
CONSOLE.  You then need to set &VMONEY to 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 to give it 0 of
the first ten currencies or whatever value you'd like (there are currently
less than ten but all ten are added for padding), &CARGO to the current
available cargo space, &MCARGO to the maximum cargo space the room holds,
&TAX to the tax rate (0.0 to whatever number, currently .02) and &PMOD## to
the price modifier for commodity number ##.  For example, setting &PMOD128 to
1.5 would make commodity number 128's price 1.5 times standard in that trade
room.  You then need to @tel to VALWORLD (#235) and use the ADD command to
add the room's dbref (minus the # symbol) to the ValDB as an econ room.  Note
that you can buy and sell commodities in a TRADEROOM.  Remember to type SAVE
in VALWORLD to save the ValDB.

&storeroom
              
The STOREROOM xtype is used for stores, which are like trade rooms but only
sell commodities.  You need to set &XTYPE on the bridge to STOREROOM and then
set the room CONSOLE.  You then need to set &VMONEY to 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 to
give it 0 of the first ten currencies or whatever value you'd like (there are
currently less than ten but all ten are added for padding), &CARGO to the
current available cargo space, &MCARGO to the maximum cargo space the room
holds, &TAX to the tax rate (0.0 to whatever number, currently .02) and
&PMOD## to the price modifier for commodity number ##.  For example, setting
&PMOD128 to 1.5 would make commodity number 128's price 1.5 times standard in
that store.  You then need to @tel to VALWORLD (#235) and use the ADD command
to add the room's dbref (minus the # symbol) to the ValDB as an econ room.
Note that you can only buy commodities in a STOREROOM.  Remember to type SAVE
in VALWORLD to save the ValDB.
    
&cargoroom
          
The CARGOROOM xtype is used for warehouses and cargo bays, which function as
places for empires and players to store their commodities.  You need to set
&XTYPE on the bridge to CARGOROOM and then set the room CONSOLE.  You then
need to set &VMONEY to 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 to give it 0 of the first ten
currencies (there are currently less than ten), &CARGO to the current
available cargo space, &MCARGO to the maximum cargo space the room holds.
You then need to @tel to VALWORLD (#235) and use the ADD command to add the
room's dbref (minus the # symbol) to the ValDB as an econ room.  Remember to
type SAVE in VALWORLD to save the ValDB.
            
&relay
    
To create a communications relay room, set &XTYPE to RELAY and @SET the room
CONSOLE.  Set @VB on the room to the maximum number of channel ranges
relayed, with @ATTRIBS set to a long string of thirty-two -1.  We have
thirty-two channel ranges, with 1 to 1.9999, 2 to 2.9999 and so on.  The
thirty-two -1 represent a closed channel range, 0 would mean the range is
open or a string for encryption.  You may want to pad a few extra -1 at the
end just in case, perhaps 35 or so and let the players choose what to relay.
The relay will then be recognized on the next VMINIT typed in the VMSPACE
room (#4).
    
&weapon
    
Text will be added here soon.
    
&item
    
Text will be added here soon.
   
