& index
   rules 
   sex-policy 
   advertisement
   credits
   noble
   families
   religion
   gaijin religion
   gender and sexuality
   
   

& rules

Rules:                                                                
                                                                      
 1. This MUSH is a non-consent IC MUSH. Thing will happen and if you  
don't like it, that's to bad because just like in RL, things happen.  
If you die, tough crap you are either old or you lost a fight. If you 
are fined, well you shouldnt have done that. If your arrested for no  
good reason, part of life.                                            
                                                                      
 2. No OOC Harassment. Please understand that while anything can      
happen ICly, OOCly you are still a person and have a right to not see 
graphic things. If people harass you about things that really, you    
don't want to listen to, tell them not to. If they continue, contact a
Wizard Immediately and they will deal with it. If a wizard fails to   
deal with it, please send an @mail to Robert with the problem and your
e-mail address. He will deal with it and wit the wizard that refused  
to handle the situation.                                              
                                                                      
 3. Like rule #2, you DO NOT have to witness any sexual scenes. We    
have a command for doing the deed, that is ALL that is needed for that
act, as a scene fades to black, or if it is IC for you to do so, just 
use the command and that will be that. If you wish to act out the     
scene, by all means do so. Sexual scenes are not eligible for Log XP. 
Also, any players under 18 should not RP these scenes. It is not our  
responsibility to monitor nor search for people who are underage and  
doing this. As per our under age policy, we claim no part in a minor  
who RP's a scene on our game. They should know the law and that person
will be site banned for breaking that law. Any one who is caught      
trying to FORCE people into those scene (acting the out instead of    
using the @mate command) will be site banned as well. WE ARE NOT A    
SEXUAL MUSH, WE ARE A RP MUSH AND WE FOCUS N RP INSTEAD OF SEX. YOU   
WANT SEX, WE CAN PROVID YOU WITH A GOOD MATURE ADULT MUSH TO SCREW ON!
                                                                      
Continued in news rules2                                              

& rules2

Rules2:                                                               
                                                                      
 4. All Pre-generated characters are property of JadeMUSH. You may use
the character on a different mush if you get permission from Robert   
first. if you are found out that you did not give permission, you will
be site banned and the owner of the mush you copied to will be        
notified of the copy write infringement.                              
                                                                      
 5. DO NOT OVERMIND A WIZARD'S RULEING! If you ask a wizard for       
something, and they say no, do not ask the next highest up. If you are
found out, steps will be taken to deal with the problem. Also, do not 
ask a Wizard if you can have a special item, you want it earn it.     
                                                                      
 6. Do not use code bugs to get ahead. This is not a MUD, you will not
get Masamune if you find a code bug and exploit it to your character's
favor. Doing so will most likely dock your XP and might even lower    
your character's skill for such.                                      
                                                                      
 Please be aware that we would like to create a happy place where all 
can get along, these rules may sound like they are harsh, but the     
greatest rule is common sense. If you are not sure, ask. We at        
JadeMUSH don't like making rules just because a few bad players break 
a rule that, really, common sense is a strong part of.                
                                                                      

& sex-policy

Sex Policy                                                            
                                                                      
 : SEX IS NOT A PART OF THIS GAME! If you want to RP a sex scene with 
someone who is older than 18, then do so. Do not let SEXUAL RP get in 
the way of your character's RP as a part of the theme. Sex in public  
will be looked down upon and most likely land you in Jail, get you a  
fine, and a social point hit. If you whine or complain about it, we   
can always block your IP address. This is one rule that Staff at      
JadeMUSH is strong about.                                             
                                                                      
 ANYO NE UNDER 18 IS NOT PERMITTED TO DO ANY SEXUAL SCENES ON THIS    
SITE. We will not watch or underage sexual acts, nor will be ask      
anyone to divulge their RL age. Just let it be known, that if we      
receive an E-mail from any upset parents, they can send that E-mail to
Kaedinzephyr@gmail.com, The site owner's personal e-mail and he will  
explain the policy that the minor read before he was allowed on here. 
As the old adverb goes, we are not running a cat house. Sex is apart  
of life, but it is not the reason you are here.                       

& advertisement

Advertisment:                                                         
                                                                      
 We at JadeMUSH do not break the rules of other mushes to promote our 
own mush. NO PROMOTION OF ANY OTHER MUSHES OUTSIDE OF THE BBOARD      
LISTEN 'Other MU*s'. Word of mouth is fine. But positing it in your   
@finger, on other boards, or on any description or string outside of  
word of mouth or the correct BBoard will get you a reprimand and      
possibly a site ban. If you have questions about running your own     
mush, please ask Robert, he will be more than happy to help you as it 
is a hobby of his and he would like to help others.                   

& credits

Credits:                                                              
                                                                      
 The theme and general idea for the MUSH is written by Robert Dobbs   
KaedinZephyr@gmail.com . Ideas are from Legend of the five rings DnD  
game written by Wizards of the cost. This is a free game, non profit, 
nor will we accept donations.                                         
                                                                      
 Code was imported and revised by Waylon.                             
                                                                      
 Bits of the original code was Created by Adam and Steph Dray at      
Firan.legendary.org port 5000.                                        
                                                                      
 We are running on a free site thanks to the folks at Frostmud.com .  
Waylon was the one who set this up and paid the donation for us to run
this site, please give him thanks.                                    
                                                                      
 any other works are property of the original owner. Code should have 
the credits in them and stealing of said code, written works and such 
will be subject to legal action.                                      

& noble

Nobility                                                              
                                                                      
 Nobility is said to be descended from the Dragon Gods. The Nobles are
leaders of the Empire of Jade and are to make sure that the empire is 
safe from harm.                                                       
                                                                      
 There are 16 families, one Royal Family and 15 Noble Families. The   
nobility is divided into 2 ranks. High Nobles are the Noble Family    
Heads, (Daimyo.) The Daimyo is also in charge of the Clan that takes  
the Families name. Also the Daimyos spouse and Heir are high noble. A 
heir must be at least 16 years of age and have their Gempuku Ceremony.
If the heir is to be a child who done not meet the age requirement,   
then the Heir goes to the next sibling in line.                       
                                                                      
 Anyone else who is a Noble is called a Lower Noble. This does not    
mean they are much lower, they still can have a sponsored, can still  
get privileges as the high nobles, they just cannot become head of a  
faction nor Clan/Family Daimyo unless they are appointed Heir. There  
can only be 45 high nobles at one time, three for each family.        
                                                                      
                                                                      
See also News: Families, Royalty.                                     

& families

Noble Families                                                        
                                                                      
                                                                      
Hantei: The imperial House. Headed by the Empoer Hatori himself, this 
house has the most prestige. Anyone with the Surname of Hantei is     
given the up most respect.                                            
                                                                      
Kakita: The Kakita House is known for it's great heroism and Daimyo   
Kaneda. This family as of late has sworn to aid the Hantei House in   
all it's endeavors. Solidifying it's place as one of the more powerful
Houses.                                                               
                                                                      
Hida: A warlike family Headed by Heroma. In alliance with the Kakita  
Family and are having talks of marrying their Daimyo's daughter to    
Kakita's son Ryomitsu.                                                
                                                                      
Shosuro: Known to many as a very diplomatic Family, though their dark 
past has some people slightly on edge as to their true intentions.    
Headed by Sabin                                                       
                                                                      
Isawa: A religious family, the High Shugenja Kuko runs this family and
is in constant angst towards the Kakita Family.                       
                                                                      
Doji: Headed by Oda, a man who runs his family and lands with an Iron 
fist. Known to be Kakita Kaneda's Cousin, he wishes for nothing more  
than to be empoer, and will beg, bribe, or threaten if he must to get 
his cousin's help.                                                    
                                                                      
Mirumoto: a Monkish family headed by Lei. They train in the art of    
meditation as well as combat without death.                           
                                                                      
Yasuki: The empire's whipping boy family. Nobility only be default and
skill, Granted by Hantei and Kakita. A family headed by Ishi and loyal
to the Imperial family to a fault.                                    
                                                                      
                                                                      
Continued in news families2                                           

& families2

Noble Families (Continued)                                            
                                                                      
 Kaiu: The creators of the southern wall, and defenders of that wall. 
This family used to be royalty themselves long before the 16 families 
chose an emperor. Having joined the empire due to the struggle they   
had on their own, they are now the largest family in the empire.      
Headed by Gunesh                                                      
                                                                      
Ashima: Devoted to History and the arts. the Ashima Family is a       
pacifistic family and believes that nothing will be solved with war.  
Their head Giness, Despises all warring families and will openly flame
the Jade Champion Kaneda due to his view point that war and peace go  
together.                                                             
                                                                      
Ichiro: A family of Calvary. They prefer spears to swords, and often  
ride their lands searching for something to hunt. The second largest  
family in the empire, as well as the largest militant family, but not 
as skilled as some. Headed by Bushinen                                
                                                                      
Horiuchi: A family often thought of as simply 'dorky' they are        
constantly lost in their books and scrolls and sometimes will even    
forget to send a politician to court to discuss matters concerning the
empire. Headed by Nikio                                               
                                                                      
Ide: A family that loves wine, and everything associated with it. They
have the largest winery in the empire and with it the largest rice    
field. Headed by Kaiten.                                              
                                                                      
Soshi: it is common Knowledge that Ninja don't exists, but if they    
did, the Soshi would be. Their family doesnt have a leader, or not a  
public one anyway, They are very quiet, and yet anyone having dealings
with them are more over vanished. Yakuza to say the least.            
                                                                      
Ikoma: Another Yakuza family, in rivalry against Soshi, headed by Lady
Don Samiko. They promote gambling and the finest geisha house in the  
empire.                                                               
                                                                      
Kitsu: A family of Foresters, a generally happy family, and like the  
Yasuki, Newer to nobility than the rest. Headed by Jakino.            
                                                                      
                                                                      
Please see news: Noble, Royalty                                       
For Clan information please see News <clan name>                      

& life expectancy

Most characters in the Jade Empire will not live past 50 years or so. 
Age of adult hood is 16, and most are married before the age of 20. No
character under the age of 10 will be character generated. Strength   
and Awareness are capped at 4 for people under 16.                    

& religion

Religion                                                              
                                                                      
 The beginning of time, a time when man was just learning and taking  
his first baby steps to the great civilization we have now known as   
the Jade Empire. The eight gods, a family if you will, had ruled and  
still does rule this wonderful land. These gods are:                  
                                                                      
 Lord Sun: Golden Dragon and King of the Dragons                      
 Lady Moon: Silver Dragon and Queen of the Night.                     
                                                                      
Their Children are:                                                   
 Lord Pyro: Red dragon of Fire and war.                               
 Lady Aqua: Blue dragon of water and Queen of Knowledge.              
 Lord Aero: Yellow Dragon of the Sky and god of sportsmanship.        
 Lady Geo: Green dragon of the earth, farmers, and animals            
 Lady Diva: White dragon of all that is holy, goddess of healing and  
nurturing                                                             
 Shard: Black dragon of Death and chaos, bringer of the Shadowspwan   
and stealer of souls.                                                 
                                                                      
  Lord Sun had brought fourth his seed, a Ninth dragon known as       
Hantei, who resembled humans. he was the favorite of the Lord of      
Dragons and was told to produce a blood line to rule the jade Lands.  
Then Lord son has 16 bastard children with 16 women all around the    
empire. Thus, he made them swear to aide their older brother Hantei,  
and they became the nobles giving their own name for their families.  
It is nobility you must respect as they carry the blood of the dragons
with them.                                                            
                                                                      

& gaijin religion

Gaijin Religion                                                       
                                                                      
 The barbarians to the north follow their own gods, and little is     
known. They have an evil god called Hullior, who watches over the     
souls in hell who are not deemed worthy for their heaven, and who will
entice mortals to do wrong in order for them to join him in his       
hellish burning prison. They also have Odin, Lord of the Heavens who  
sealed Hullior away and who's favor is known to sway back and fourth. 
                                                                      
 The current leader of the Gaijin, who call themselves Horde men, have
a leader, a high priest by the name of Kaedin Zephyr, said to be a    
descendent of Odin as well, to guide the Horde from evil, and to lead 
them to victory over the Shadowspwan and hellspawn.                   
                                                                      

& gender and sexuality

Gender and Sexuality                                                  
                                                                      
                                                                      
 Men and women are equal in the Jade Empire. The only difference      
between them is physical appearance.                                  
                                                                      
 There is no Sexuality in the Jade empire, there is not words for     
heterosexual, homosexual, ect. If you have a problem with this, you   
don't have to RP any sexual scene, but gay bashing, freaking out about
it, or complaining to staff that you just 'don't even want to consider
it' wont make me change my mind. No, you DO NOT have to RP any sexual 
scenes, but also, you have NO RIGHT to diss people who do, in any way 
they wish.                                                            
                                                                      

